== Summary ==

MicroPsi is a cognitive architecture, based on the Psi theory by Dietrich Dörner 

== Introduction ==

MicroPsi has been developed since 2002 at the Humboldt-University of Berlin (AI group of Institute for Computer Science) and University of Osnabrück (Institute for Cognitive Science).

MicroPsi has been created by Joscha Bach. The effort has had many contributors, especially Ronnie Vuine, Matthias Füssel, David Salz, Julia Böttcher, Markus Dietzsch, and Colin Bauer.

== Details ==

You may find information about the project at http://cognitive-ai.com

The MicroPsi agent architecture describes the interaction of emotion, motivation and cognition of situated agents, mainly based on the Psi theory of Dietrich Dörner. The Psi theory adresses emotion, perception, representation and bounded rationality, but being formulated within psychology, has had relatively little impact on the discussion of agents within computer science. MicroPsi is a formulation of the original theory in a more abstract and formal way, at the same time enhancing it with additional concepts for memory, building of ontological categories and attention.

MicroPsi is a small step towards understanding how the mind works. The agents are virtual creatures that act according to motives that stem from physiological and cognitive urges. They build representations of their environment based on interaction. Their cognition is modulated according to perceived situations and performance, and thus they undergo emotional states.
The agent framework uses semantic networks, called node nets, that are a unified representation for control structures, plans, sensoric and active schemas, bayesian networks and neural nets. Thus it is possible to set up different kinds of agents on the same framework.